# Software Development Plan
- Statement of purpose and scope
The objective of this application is to create a small-scale, short arena-themed text-based fighting game in the Ruby programming language, that runs on the user’s terminal. 
The fighting in the game will utilise a simple combat logic pulled from the classic hand-based game ‘Scissors-Paper-Rock’. The game will see the player choose a name for their fighter in the terminal before being thrown into the arena, within the code file, to compete against a number of foes with various pre-defined characteristics, including their names and their starting health points. The fighting itself will then be conducted through the player choice of one of multiple ‘moves’ that they can perform – the options of which will be displayed to the player before being able to be entered through the regular keyboard input. This player ‘move’ selection will then be logically compared against their opponent’s choice of move using the aforementioned fighting logic, and health points will then be deducted appropriately from each party depending on the outcome of the comparison of each parties’ move. 
The intended target audience of this application will be people who possess a computer of some sort, a bit of free time to spare and a desire for some form of entertainment whilst also not being opposed to the idea of the fighting game genre, or alternatively, those wanting to sample a small code project built in the Ruby programming language and possibly check the project for areas that can be improved as a means of furthering their own comprehension of Ruby knowledge via improving on someone else’s work at a beginner level.
The application will be able to be used by having the Ruby code file in a known directory, and then opening up that file via the users’ terminal and passing in a name argument in order to boot up the game.

- Features
1)	The user has a choice in username: The user within the arena terminal application is able to designate a username for their usage during their time within the game. This enables the user to feel a certain level of familiarity with their in-game character, who otherwise doesn’t really have many identifying characteristics. There are also length constraints on this username to make sure that any usernames run with the program are of a reasonable length to repeatedly display. Users also have the option to check the username history log in the program’s primary directory if they wish to take inspiration for their username choice from previous users of the application – whose chosen usernames are stored in this log in a neat format.
2)	The user is able to engage in combat via a Scissors, Paper, Rock logic-influenced combat system: The combat system of this program combines the ‘three conflicting elements’ combat style of the traditional children’s game Scissors, Paper, Rock, with a ‘health points’ mechanic pulled from role-playing videogames that represents the life total of both the player and their opponent (and that upon reaching zero – results in a game over state for that side). The combat also differs from traditional Scissors, Paper, Rock logic in that it is turn-based – with a set attacker and defender per turn, or phase of the match. Combat is carried out via user input directed by the prompts of the in-application text engine.
3)	The user is able to enjoy the differing characteristics of characters appearing within the application: This application features, exclusive of the user themselves, four different characters appearing in sequence. These characters all have their own characteristics – encompassing a separate colour text for each characters’ communications, distinct catchphrases/speaking styles, and differing health points (for combat-related characters). These differing characteristics are used to supplement the user experience by offering an element of diversity within in-game back-and-forth interactions.

- User interaction and experience outline
Before booting up the application-proper, the user is able to browse the contents of the applications repository; including a username history file documenting the usernames that all past users of the application on the same terminal have chosen for decision reference, and this software development plan informing the user the general purpose of and acting as a general how-to guide for the application, amongst other files. The user will begin using the application by calling it from their terminal with a single argument that is to be used as their username within the application. The application will then begin as users are greeted with their provided username by an announcer. The announcer will ask a couple of questions to the user – one of which the users response is meaningless, and the other of which requires an affirmative response from the user in order to proceed, as it explains the rules of the game in-depth. Then, the first battle opponent will emerge – and the user, now knowing the game rules, will commence combat with that opponent. The combat experience sees the user typing in one of their moves out of “scissors”, “paper” and “rock” in both their attack phase (attacking) and the opponent’s attack phase (defending). This is carried out sequentially until either the player of the opponent run out of health points. If the player runs out of health points before the opponent does, the screen will announce a game over state and exit the application. However, if the player manages to eliminate all of the opponent’s health before they lose all of theirs – the goal of the game, they are allowed to proceed to the next opponent. Following the first and second battle phases, the announcer will briefly return – announcing the full restoration of the users health points and giving a brief introduction of the next opponent. After the third opponent is beaten in combat, the announcer briefly congratulates the player for completing the game, and then the application exits. The application is designed to be and is inherently simple enough to be void of most errors, but a notable error is when the user fails to successfully enter a single, three to eight character username in their command line argument when booting the main file. This is handled by automatically assigning a default username to the player character for that game session – not saved in the username history file, but fine for a tentative playthrough of the application, and convenient for allowing the user not to have to deal with the application exiting and necessitating a relaunch.

- Control Flow Diagram
See control_flow_diagram.pdf

# Implementation Plan
See Implementation Plan.xlsx

# Help File
Required Ruby gem/s: This application requires that you’re computer has the Ruby gem ‘colorize’ in order to fully function. This gem can be downloaded by going to your terminal, typing in ‘gem install colorize’. This gem is used to provide different colours to the text of characters that appear within the application, and is imported first thing within the application’s index file.
How to start the application: This application has a myriad of different files within its directory, however it is based on running a specific one of those files. That file is named ‘index.rb’ and can be found within the primary directory of the application. In order for index.rb to run properly however, the user must first provide a character name for their player within the application. Both running the index.rb file and providing your character name are done in your terminal by entering the syntax ‘ruby index.rb <your character name>’.
How to navigate the application: Once the application has booted up you will be greeted, by text in the terminal, with your provided character name. From then on you should follow the flow of the in-application instructions.

# Development Log
3/9/2019 12:50PM
Encountered an issue in trying to use 'gets' after providing command line arguments. The program would come up with an error in that it seemed as it gets was undefined. As I noticed that the player name that I inputted was part of the error message, I did a bit of fiddling around, and I found out that gets, as a method that takes an input and presumably puts that input back as an argument into the program to display it to the screen, was confused by the existing argument in the ARGV array. The issue was solved by clearing ARGV of command line arguments (after using them), with 'ARGV.clear'.

4/9/2019 9AM
Came across an obstacle in that I needed to receive an unknown string (either "scissors", "rock" or "paper") and then call methods with the exact same name as that string(scissors, rock and paper). Received advice on Ruby's 'send' method - where we figured out that you need to call send with the string-to-be-called-as-a-method as its first argument, and that methods' own arguments as the second and further arguments of 'send'.

# Testing
See Testing.xlsx

# Bash Script
See put_into_dist.sh

# Project Management
See Project Management Tool Screenshots/

# Source Control
See arena-terminal-app-master.zip